Add job_type guidance for distributed training organization - DOCS-1018 (#1556)
wandb/docs: content/en/guides/models/track/log/distributed-training.md

The preceding image demonstrates the W&B App UI dashboard. On the sidebar we see two experiments. One labeled 'null' and a second (bound by a yellow box) called 'DPP'. If you expand the group (select the Group dropdown) you will see the W&B Runs that are associated to that experiment.

### Organize distributed runs with `job_type`

> When running distributed training with multiple processes, you can use `job_type` to distinguish between different types of nodes and create cleaner workspaces. This approach helps you organize your runs and filter out noise from worker nodes.

Author: ```suggestion
When running distributed training with multiple processes, you can specify the `job_type` in your [`wandb_init()`]({{< relref "/ref/python/sdk/functions/init/" >}}) invocation to distinguish between different types of nodes. Then you can create saved views to help you organize your runs and filter out noise from worker nodes.
```
I checked and the job_type field is documented in the reference for init(). https://docs.wandb.ai/ref/python/sdk/functions/init/ WDYT about this edit?

To organize your distributed training runs:

1. Set `job_type` for different node types to categorize your nodes based on their function:

   ```python
   # Main coordinating node
   wandb.init(
       project="distributed-training",
       group="experiment_1",
       job_type="main"
   )

   # Reporting worker nodes
   wandb.init(
       project="distributed-training", 
       group="experiment_1",
       job_type="worker"
   )
   ```

> 1. Create filtered views in your workspace to organize your runs:

Reviewer: What is meant by "filtered view"? Is it like a saved workspace? If yes, link to docs the describe this.

Author: Updated via the suggested edit below

> 1. Create filtered views in your workspace to organize your runs:

Author: ```suggestion
1. Create [saved views]({{< relref "/guides/track/workspaces/#create-a-new-saved-workspace-view" >}}) in your workspace to organize your runs. First, filter and group your runs to show a subset of runs, then click the **...** action menu at the top right and click **Save as new view**. For example, you could create the following saved views:
```

>    - **Default view**: Filter out worker nodes to reduce noise

Reviewer: * Let's add a line that states where to do this (App vs SDK). 
* Also, I checked a random project and couldn't find "job_type" as an option. Did you verify this works?

Author: It is a field in `init()`. I added a suggested edit. Does that work?

Author: So I think in the workspace, it is "Job Type" and you can filter or group on it.  So it looks like what you need to do now is:

1. Set the job type when you initialize the run.
2. In the workspace, filter for a specific job type.
3. Three dots menu, Save as a new view.

Does that sound right to you?

Author: Updated accordingly.

>      - Use filter: `job_type != "worker"`

Author: ```suggestion
     - Click **Filter**, then set **Job Type** to `worker`.
```

     - Shows only your reporting nodes

   - **Debug view**: Focus on worker nodes for troubleshooting

>      - Use filter: `job_type == "worker" && state NOT IN ["running", "finished"]`

Author: ```suggestion
     - Click **Filter**, then set **Job Type** `==` `worker` and set **State** to  `IN` `crashed`.
```

     - Shows only worker nodes that have crashed or are in error states

   - **All nodes view**: See everything together

>      - No filter (or `job_type IN ["main", "worker"]`)

Author: ```suggestion
     - No filter
```

     - Useful for comprehensive monitoring

> 

Author: ```suggestion

To open a saved view, click **Workspaces** in the sidebar, then click the menu. Workspaces appear at the top of the list and saved views appear at the bottom.
```

The preceding image demonstrates the W&B App UI dashboard. On the sidebar we see two experiments. One labeled 'null' and a second (bound by a yellow box) called 'DPP'. If you expand the group (select the Group dropdown) you will see the W&B Runs that are associated to that experiment.

### Organize distributed runs with `job_type`

> When running distributed training with multiple processes, you can specify the `job_type` in your [`wandb_init()`]({{< relref "/ref/python/sdk/functions/init/" >}}) invocation to distinguish between different types of nodes. Then you can create saved views to help you organize your runs and filter out noise from worker nodes.

Reviewer: Removing beginning portion since it might sound like one can only use `job_type` for distributed runs. (You can specify job_type for any run you initialize.)

```suggestion
Specify the `job_type` in your [`wandb_init()`]({{< relref "/ref/python/sdk/functions/init/" >}}) invocation to distinguish between different types of nodes. Then you can create saved views to help you organize your runs and filter out noise from worker nodes.
```

To organize your distributed training runs:

1. Set `job_type` for different node types to categorize your nodes based on their function:

>    ```python
>    # Main coordinating node
>    wandb.init(
>        project="distributed-training",
>        group="experiment_1",
>        job_type="main"
>    )
> 
>    # Reporting worker nodes
>    wandb.init(
>        project="distributed-training", 
>        group="experiment_1",
>        job_type="worker"
>    )

Reviewer: Let's highlight that each code snippet is in a different script and machine.

```suggestion
   ```python
   # Main coordinating node
   with wandb.init(project="distributed-training", group="experiment_1",job_type="main") as run:
       # Training code

   # Reporting worker nodes
   with wandb.init(project="distributed-training", group="experiment_1", job_type="worker") as run:
       # Training code
   ```

Reviewer: ^GitHub preview looks weird. Verify locally it works.

Author: Applied and verified locally.

   ```

> 1. Create [saved views]({{< relref "/guides/models/track/workspaces/#create-a-new-saved-workspace-view" >}}) in your workspace to organize your runs. First, filter and group your runs to show a subset of runs, then click the **...** action menu at the top right and click **Save as new view**. For example, you could create the following saved views:

Reviewer: You don't need to set `group` in `wandb.init()` to filter runs. If you have `job_type=""` you can go to your **Runs** tab and filter with **job_type**

Reviewer: <img width="1101" height="500" alt="Screenshot 2025-08-26 at 2 33 53 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4a79ef53-3bb3-42ef-a86f-a27aeb34bb96" />

Author: I struggled here because what you are filtering on in the UI is "Job Type", not `job_type`. With that drift, I struggled to figure out how best to describe the filter. Do you think it's OK to stick with the SDK variant?

Reviewer: Remove "...and group..." and call out the naming difference between SDK and UI. Sometimes I'll refer to the method, etc. and how that translates to the UI. (The UI and SDK don't match always, so it's helpful to remind users where the stuff they see in the UI comes from.)

```suggestion
1. Create [saved views]({{< relref "/guides/models/track/workspaces/#create-a-new-saved-workspace-view" >}}) in your workspace to organize your runs. First, filter your runs to show runs by their job type.  Click the **...** action menu at the top right and click **Save as new view**. For example, you could create the following saved views:
```
